for cmd use: cd oldfile newfile
for git bash navigate to directory and then: diff -u oldfile newfile
this helps us identify any changes or typos easily in long pieces of code

Why do we use git?
For version control.  I can bring up git bash and pull in a git repository by using:

git clone http://url.com/url.git
This will then create a copy of the repository in my file.  Now to look at previous version history I can go into the directory and run:

git log
which brings up ids of previous commits.  I can now take two ids and run a comparison, checking which code has changed by comparing:

git diff id1 id2
remember I can use q to quit at any point.  and the order of the ids im comparing is chronological. git diff firstid latestid
if the colours arent showing up which should be red for somehting deleted or green for something added then run:

git config --global color.ui auto



How can you use the commands git log and git diff to view the history of files?
I can use these by typing them in as listed above.  git log displays a log of the ids of a directory and git diff compares them.

Version control can leave you confdident in makig large changes.  We can temporarily roll back to a previous repo by first findng the id with git log and then entering:

git checkout idnumber
we can now run any file and it will be rolled back, we must ensure we remember to checkout to original most recent id.  We can check for a bug and then we can then compare previous ids to look for the line of dcode that introduced the bug.

you can check for hiudden files so you can use ls -a
and when in a directory you canturn it into a git directory by typing:
git init

can also to check details of the directory:
git status

once a directory has been initialised, we can now add files to the staging area using:

git add filename
you can add multiple files to the staging area and then a single commit will move all files in staging area from here to a new commit

to check any updates recently made that havent been added to the staging area just run the command without any arguments:

git diff
this will then provide all recent changes to files that haven't yet been commited or added to staging area.  If iwanted to compare those that are in the staged area to the repo then it is:

git diff --staged
if you want to erase any changes made in the working directory or the tsaging area, although this is rare that you should want to do this and you should be careful, use:

git reset --hard
if the head is detached from using a checkout id from earlier then you can use git checkout master to return to the most recent.
You can veer off the master and create separate branches by using:

git branch
and this will list all existing branches.  You would then type:

git got branch nameofbranch
where nameofbranch is the argument to create the name of the new branch.  by checking the git branch now you can see all listed branches and you can then access the new branch using git checkout.

how are branches helpful?
a branch could be used to separate different experimental features, or to create a different player difficulty setting, or a different language.  These different branches can later be merged but it is useful to keep them at different states.  also when working in a team each person can work on a different branch so working on each dffernet feautre or bug.
If multiple people are working on different branches, you can look at change history by:

git log --graph --oneline branch1 branch2
this will visualise the changes made in each branch, make the earlier branch first.  If I am on a separate branch and checkout an unrelated aerea like the master for example, the i will lose progress. those changes need to be committed and can be done by:

git checkout -b newbranchname
this will create new branch and view it.


